[SAISHU]
What's wrong?
[SAISHU'S WIFE]
I feel something strange.
Inside my mouth.
[SAISHU'S WIFE] Dear, would
you take a look at this?
Is that a tooth?
♪ Opening Song ♪
[NARRATOR]
Seeds that take root
in the decaying bodies
of our ancestors
let their green leaves
grow and flourish,
and bear heavy, heavy seed.
[GINKO]
Excuse me.
Could you possibly
sell me something to eat?
Look around.
There's nothing to spare.
Because of the cold weather,
I'm working just to save
what little I have.
[MALE FARMER B]
You should try the village past
the next mountain.
[MALE FARMER B]
They're the only ones that had
a bountiful crop this year.
Hey! What kind of
advice is that?
He is right.
But I wouldn't go
near there if I were you.
The rice there isn't normal.
Every time there's
a natural disaster,
their harvest is plentiful.
They say it's the curse
of their ancestors.
[VILLAGER A] It must be
a "Parting Harvest."
[VILLAGER B]
I think you're right.
[VILLAGER C] Another one
of us is going to be taken
by our ancestors.
[VILLAGER A] I wonder
who it will be this year?
[VILLAGER C] The ancestors
always choose from the weakest
among us.
[GINKO] Wow. That's a
pretty impressive crop!
Who are you?
And what do you want?
Well, I was hoping that you
could sell me something to eat.
We don't give
our food to strangers.
It's not every year
that we have a good crop.
So when we do, everything
that we harvest is stored away.
[GINKO]
Huh...
So this year's crop is a little
better than usual, I take it?
Yeah, it is.
My village always honors and
celebrates our ancestors.
That's why they've
continued to watch over us
and protect us from harm.
And in exchange,
they take the life of
someone in the village, right?
That seems a bit harsh,
even for the ancestor's doing.
[SANE]
We... We don't have a choice.
[GINKO]
Well, I think you do.
Would you mind
telling me about it?
[SANE] Every time this village
suffers a natural disaster,
its crops flourish.
I've heard this has been
happening for many, many years.
In the fall of these years,
someone in the village
always grows a Mizuha,
an out-of-place tooth
symbolizing happiness
and blessings.
At the end of the season,
the tooth falls out
and the host... always dies.
[SANE] It's said that the life
is an offering to the ancestors
for the miracle crop.
The story has been passed
down for generations.
Still, everyone here
is grateful.
If these miracles were to cease,
the people of this village
wouldn't be able
to continue their way
of life in this barren land.
So do the people that are chosen
have anything in common?
[SANE] It's been said that
the weak ones go first.
Are the bodies buried?
[SANE]
Yes.
[GINKO] What about
the tooth that falls out?
The tooth?
It's kept in the temple
by the Head Priest.
Head Priest?
He's the one that takes care
of all of the
village's festivities.
After he's gone,
I am to become his successor.
So I've been learning from him.
Apparently, soon after
the tooth falls out,
it's only visible
to the Head Priest.
That's why he's the
one that keeps it.
[GINKO] Why were you chosen
to be his successor?
It's because of what
we share in common.
I too can sometimes see
things that others cannot.
[GINKO] I'd like to meet
this Head Priest.
[SANE]
Saishu!
[SANE] Maybe he's in
the garden around back.
[GINKO]
Journals about agriculture.
[SAISHU] It's rare to
receive visitors here.
Just who are you, anyway?
I'm Ginko.
A mushi Master.
I'm looking for something
called the Nazaru seed.
[SAISHU]
Is that so...
Sane.
Don't you have some
field work to do?
Come back when you're done.
We need to be ready.
It's going to be quite
a harvest this year.
[SAISHU]
Come now.
Are you still worried
about your mother?
Hey, it'll be all right.
Don't worry.
She's going to be fine.
Here. Have her eat this.
[SAISHU] I was told that a mushi
Master passed through here
during the time of
my predecessor.
But you've wasted your time.
There's no such seed
around here.
So...
This harvest is achieved through
the grace of your ancestors?
[SAISHU]
The grace of our ancestors?
Well, that is part of it.
Because of our faith in them,
our people are able to work
the land without giving up.
But that's not the only reason.
Over the years,
we've experimented
with our crops,
and developed better
ways to grow them.
From time to time,
we end up with a crop
like this one.
We harvest more every year.
Tell me...
What do you know
about the Mizuha?
An adult getting a new tooth
isn't entirely unheard of.
It has nothing to do
with the harvest.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
I have one more
thing to ask you.
What is it?
Do you know anything
about the Nazaru seed?
Yes. My ancestors
spoke of it.
Supposedly, a mushi Master
sealed the Koumyaku
inside of it.
The mushi light pulse.
[GINKO]
Right.
You can probably see that
light pulse, can't you?
Since you can also
see the mushi.
[GINKO]
The weaker the mushi are,
the brighter their
light pulse becomes.
This is because when weakened,
they're closer to their source.
The koki, which the
light pulse flows through.
The koki is basically
life itself.
If you can control it,
it can be used for many things,
including resurrection
and eternal life.
Of course, such things
are the most prohibited
transgressions a
mushi Master can commit.
But there have been exceptions.
The Nazaru seed is one of them.
When planted, it brings
a full year's harvest
to the area around it.
As payment, it takes one life
from those who
benefited from it.
That is what we know of it.
Tell me...
What exactly would you plan
to do with this seed
if you found it?
Would you make use of it
or destroy it?
That's what I was
about to ask you.
What would you do with the seed?
A seed that has the power
to save thousands of lives
at the cost of only one.
[SAISHU]
I'd probably use it.
I think that if such
a seed really did exist,
it would be a sin
to let so many suffer.
[GINKO] But if you planted
the seed knowing full well
that it was going
to take a life,
then it's the same as murder.
No matter how many lives
are saved by using it,
someone becomes a
sacrifice regardless
of his or her own will.
If that is the
cost of the crime,
then anyone would
soil their hands,
even if you were just
trading two lives for one.
Yeah, I understand how
someone would choose to use it,
looking at it in
the terms of one year.
But if you used it one time,
you would surely use it again.
And that seed is alive.
The more you use it,
the more powerful it becomes.
Eventually, it would destroy the
balance of everything around it.
[SAISHU] So if it were you,
you wouldn't use it?
Knowing you could
save so many lives.
I don't know.
I've never lived
in a village before.
But I think I'd
just leave the land.
[SAISHU] In this ground
beneath our feet
lie the sweat and blood
of my ancestors!
They pioneered this land
and made it what it is today.
It's our greatest achievement!
But wouldn't you be
tainting this precious land
by planting something in
it that's so unnatural?
You have quite an imagination.
What am I saying?
This is all supposition.
If there was such
a seed in my possession
and I had to make that choice...
I would...
I would have to think
about it some more.
[SAISHU] There will always be
leftover seed in one's hands.
There's too much of it
for anyone to bear alone.
Just like the heavy seed
that burdens an
overgrowing stem,
it will overflow and
pour out over the hands
and fall upon the soil,
unaware of the
pain and suffering
it will cause the people
in its aftermath.
Finished talking already?
We have. For the most part.
So then, what happens now?
Are you going to save us?
I am.
But first, I'll need the consent
of the entire village.
They need to know what's
behind the "Parting Harvest."
Could you gather
everyone somewhere?
Yeah, sure.
But what... what are
you planning to--
[SAISHU]
So...
Are you going
to burn the fields?
You think you can stop
this by destroying the crops
before someone grows
the Mizuha tooth.
Yeah, that's right.
So you're finally
admitting the truth.
You're wrong, mushi Master.
Destroying the crops
won't do anything.
You'll only bring this
village to starvation!
All they'll have to do is
move away for one year.
They'll need to
split up, dissipate,
and live in different
places during that time.
If they can do that,
they should survive.
By the spring, the ashes will
have fertilized the ground.
How many do you think
would actually return
once they leave this place?
No one here knows what
a true abundant harvest is.
That's how they're able to
keep trying, and to have hope.
Just leave us alone.
Get out of here.
I won't allow you
to tell them such...
Such nonsense!
[SAISHI groans]
[SANE]
Saishu!
Does he have some kind
of illness or condition?
[SANE]
I can't say for sure,
but I know he hasn't been
feeling well lately.
and I've seen him
taking medicine.
[GINKO]
Medicine?
[SANE]
Yeah. He keeps it in this.
[GINKO] I'm not sure why you've
been poisoning yourself
with this,
but it's irresponsible,
considering what you'd
be leaving behind
for the people here.
[SAISHU]
Tell me, mushi Master.
Since you want to
burn the fields,
I'm guessing you
didn't come here
to collect and use
the seed, did you?
Please, help me.
I've been trying to become
the weakest among us
so that the seed's
final victim...
...will be me.
[SAISHU] It's been said that the
one who brought the seed here
was of my own lineage.
A former Head Priest.
Since then, every time a
natural disaster occurred,
the seed was used.
In order to prevent a panic,
the seed's location has only
been known by the Head Priests.
Twenty years ago,
when I became the Head Priest,
another devastating natural
disaster occurred.
I felt I had no choice
but to use it.
[SAISHU]
I'm going out for a bit.
[SAISHU'S WIFE]
All right. Be careful, okay?
[SAISHU'S WIFE coughs]
[SAISHU]
This is the right thing to do.
I was only thinking
of what was best
for the entire village.
I know it is.
It has to be.
[SAISHU] I was unaware
that my wife was hiding
her illness from me.
When autumn came,
she was the one who
grew the Mizuha tooth.
[SAISHU'S WIFE]
Please, dear.
Have some rice.
I beg of you.
I don't want you to die, too.
[SAISHU]
What are you doing?!
[SAISHU'S WIFE]
Please, eat this.
If I know that you're taking
my life within your body,
then I can die without
knowing any fear.
[SAISHU] Despite knowing
what this rice really was,
and where it came from,
my body greedily accepted it.
[SAISHU] I had fully intended
to throw away the seed
that fell from my wife's mouth.
But then considered
the next natural disaster
that was sure to come.
Eventually, I thought of a way I
could use the seed one last time
without having to
sacrifice someone's life.
[SAISHU]
This year, that time came.
I intend to have
Sane destroy the seed
once it has fallen
from my mouth.
It's been said
that if you bury it in the
veins of the Koumyaku,
it loses its shape
and is taken in.
I have no intention
of telling him
what it is the seed
actually does.
Are you okay with that?
You, more than anyone,
want to live here and watch over
the land of your ancestors.
[SAISHU]
I can see it already.
As long as we keep
trying and don't give up,
slowly but surely,
this land will become fertile.
The day will come when
we can live off of this land
without suffering.
I don't know how many
generations it will take,
but that matters not.
Either way, I won't
be around to see it.
[GINKO]
All right. I understand.
Do as you wish.
But there's one more thing
I'd like to ask you.
[SAISHU coughing]
[SANE]
Saishu!
I think my mother's
going to be okay!
She's been eating a little more
and her strength is coming back!
Really? That's wonderful!
I told you she'd be all right.
[SANE]
Mmm-hmm!
Hey, Sane.
I need to talk to you.
It's important,
so listen carefully.
[VILLAGER A]
Sane!
The ritual Shinto
prayer is different
from the one last year.
Hey.
Have you heard if anyone's
grown the Mizuha tooth yet?
[VILLAGER E]
No.
I've heard nothing.
[VILLAGER D] Maybe this year's
crop wasn't a Parting Harvest
after all.
What do you think?
[VILLAGER E]
Who knows?
It could just be due
to all of our hard work.
[SANE panting]
[SANE crying]
Hey.
[SANE]
The festival.
it seems to be going fine.
Everyone is having a good time.
[SANE]
Don't worry.
I'll do exactly
what you said to.
[SANE]
Saishu...
[SANE crying]
[SANE]
Why?!
Why does it have
to be this way?!
[crying continues]
Don't tell anyone what
I'm about to do here,
you understand me?
[GINKO] But there's one more
thing I'd like to ask you.
I told you that the
Koumyaku is like life itself,
but it alone
cannot revive a life.
The one thing that can
do something like that
is that seed.
Now it's a risk,
but if that seed is consumed,
it should be able to
revive living beings, too.
But because of the differences
between you and a plant,
the light pulse will probably
continue to live within you.
If that happens,
you will no longer be human.
You will become
an immortal being.
Is that something
you can handle?
[SAISHU] Isn't doing such a
thing forbidden by your kind?
But since you're asking,
do you think you could do it?
If you keep quiet about it,
no one will know.
I'm not certain it would
work, and even if it did,
I'm not sure if it would
be what's best for you.
But, if you're willing to try...
I opened those
old wounds of yours
to find out what kind of
person you really are.
I don't mind soiling my hands.
Give it some thought.
I don't think I'll need to.
I already know my answer.
[SAISHU]
I want to watch over this land.
The land of my forefathers.
And see it develop and grow.
[SAISHU]
I need to know,
with all that has happened,
if I did the right thing.
[NARRATOR]
Thereafter, in that village,
the story of that year's
harvest was passed down
from generation to generation.
As was another tale.
A new legend had been born.
In the year of the
last "Parting Harvest,"
the rice was
responsible for bringing
a dead man back to life,
and making him immortal.
The ageless man would
wander around the country,
returning to the village
from time to time
to teach the people
new ways to enrich the soil
and cultivate the land.
Next: "The White Which Lives
Within The Inkstone."